So, now that we have this,
we are still getting an error here,
because menu can be null the first time,
right?
So if it's null, I cannot return
a null because it's asking for
a list of categories.
So if I know that I do have a menu,
because I fetched it, I need to do this,
or check if it's null or not,
and maybe create an empty one.
Remember, this is actually saying,
open that option and return that option.
And actually this code will
make the trick of going and
rendering something in the menu.
It's downloading the JSON,
parsing the JSON.
How do I know if this is working?
Well, first, who is going to use this?
Menupage, okay?
So in menupage, I was doing this dummy
product thing that I don't think I want.
What do I want here?
I wanna go and talk to the data manager.
So I have a list view here.
What if instead of this, I'm rendering
a text, just to see if something works.
And in the text, I will say items or
categories, Available.
And I will pull here an expression
saying dataManager.getMenu.
So this is going to get the menu, right?
That was kind of the idea.
So I'm getting the menu
directly like this.
And from this, I can take from the menu.
Remember, getMenu is actually returning
the future list of categories.
Make sense?
So we can actually get
the contents on the screen.
But it's a future,
how can I listen for the future?
This is similar to promises in JavaScript,
you can listen for them, okay?
So there is a then, there is a cart,
similar to promises, but
it feels a little weird to do this.
I mean, I can, so
then I can render the value, but
it's kind of weird that I'm
doing this within a text.
So to solve the problems and work with
futures, there is a much better way.
So Flutter has something
known as FutureBuilder.
What's a FutureBuilder?
The FutureBuilder is actually a widget
that will be based in a future.
Again, what's a future?
A value that is coming later, okay?
That's kind of the idea.
So the FutureBuilder works in this way.
You will understand the whole
idea in a minute and
I think that you will like it,
because it's actually pretty good.
The FutureBuilder
receives first a builder.
What's a builder?
There are some elements,
some widgets in Flutter,
that instead of receiving children,
they have a builder.
A builder typically receives a context and
an index, okay,
typically, but it depends on the case.
Some builders will get you
something different, okay?
So it depends on the builder.
In this case, you're getting
something known as a snapshot.
In fact, I think that you get
the signature there, as an example, okay?
You'll understand what's
going on in a second.
I think I have some parentheses issues.
So let's balance this.
This goes to a newline, okay, that's fine.
So here, what I need to do,
I need to return something, for example,
a text, okay?
Saying something, a widget, so
a builder returns a widget, okay?
What's going on?
What's a snapshot?
A snapshot is a variable that will
contain the data from the future,
but it also will contain
properties such as this, hasData.
So if it has data, we can do something,
if it doesn't have data,
we can do something else.
So while it is waiting for
the future to finish,
It will actually go to the else, and
here in the else, we can render
anything such as for example.
And by the way, if it doesn't have data,
maybe it's because there is an error.
So an exception has happened.
So the future actually reject the data.
So, what we can do here,
we need to return different options,
such as there was an error
loading the data.
This is a const, and
here there is a CircularPogressIndicator
that we can use as well,
so we can return that one.
What is that?
An animation with a circle.
So this means the data is in progress,
so the future didn't finish.
Make sense?
If we are here, it's because the data
is not there because of an error.
So we are rendering an error.
And if we have data,
the future has finished, data is ready.
So with a FutureBuilder,
we have this way to actually render
different things on the screen for
different situations.
Does it make sense for now?
So we can release a widget, so we can
use it anytime that we have widget that
needs to go to the network or
to other places that are future-based,
And then render content on the screen.
But where is the data coming from, because
we need to specify where the future is?
And the future is the dataManager.getMenu.
Okay, so we are asking the FutureBuilder
to build a UI based on the future.
The future has different states.
What's a future?
A promise,
a promise of a future data, okay?
That make sense, kind of?
So if we do have something,
maybe we can return the text for now,
taking where is the data?
Actually the snapshot has the data.
Okay, the snapshot has the data.
So what do I need to do with that data?
I can install that into a variable, sorry.
So my data is an array of categories,
so you can call these categories,
and I will say is,
I know that the data is there, why?
Because I have already asked for it.
Because if there is errors,
the data is null.
Does it make sense or
did you get really complicated?
So now, I can say there
are categories_length.
Can we get length?
Well, the promise said it
doesn't know what it is.
So what you can do here is I can say,
as something,
I know it's a list of category.
Does it make sense?
So now, it has a length.
So let's summarize what I've done here.
So this is my menu page.
My menu page right now is
rendering a FutureBuilder.
So it means that it's
rendering some content
based on requesting that
content from a future.
Does it makes sense?
The content, for a while,
it's loading, and for that,
we have here a CircularProgressIndicator.
Maybe there is an error at some
point in the future process.
For example, there was an error
with parsing the JSON or
wherever you define as an error,
and then it's going to render this.
And if we have data,
it should render a text.
Does it make sense kind of?
So let's rerun this in Chrome.
>> So a FutureBuilder just
keeps getting rebuilt?
>> We are in a state with widgets,
so actually once it was rendered,
there will be no rerendering.
Does it makes sense?
And, I mean,
it still doesn't look super great, but
I think you should get excited
about that little message saying,
there are four categories, because that's
actually the data coming from the server.
I didn't hack all that, okay?
I mean, we didn't see that circular
indicator because it's actually going
really fast, okay?
So that's why we didn't.
We can try to reload here and see if
it's right to turn on this again and
keep this up to the right, so
we can actually preview what's going on.
Let me rearrange a little bit this,
like so.
Oops, Like that.
So if I refresh, now the JSON
is coming really really fast, so
that's why we're not seeing the measure.
But let's see, if there is an error,
we can actually see that because
I can just force an error in the URL and
see if that happens.
So now, I don't wanna see
a text saying there are four
categories, I wanna see the categories,
right?
So to do that, I need a column or a list
view, because we want to scroll, remember.
So I want a ListView, but
in this case, the ListView, remember,
has children, and
I need to pass the array.
Can I pass the array of
categories as an argument?
What do you think, like here?
No, because this is a list of category,
not the list of widgets.
Does it makes sense?
So yeah, I can map these into,
but it doesn't work like this.
So ListView has another way to
create a ListView with a builder.
Okay, so this is actually a factory
constructor or a name constructor.
What's an item builder?
I will receive here context and
index, and I need to return a view.
So actually, this is how it works.
The index is actually the category
that I need to render.
So I need to return here,
what do I wanna render for that index?
So for example,
I can render, you will understand
finally what's going on in minute.
So I can render categories[index].name,
so a text with that.
I need to put semicolon here, and
I think I have a parenthesis
balance issue.
Yeah, I need one more
to close the builder.
There we go.
So now, what we have here,
where I'm going more for some reason,
we'll check in a minute.
But I see hot coffee,
ice coffee, tea and snacks.
So this is actually going
through the ListView, okay?
Any questions on this one?
So why do we have an error?
Because actually,
if you look at the ListView builder,
the ListView builder doesn't
know about my categories array.
So it doesn't know how many
items it should render, okay?
Does it make sense?
So it doesn't know.
I can actually say so with itemCount.
So I will say, hey, you know what,
you will have four only.
So don't ask me for
more because I don't have more.
It's not an infinite list.
So actually, with this, you can make
an infinite list, you don't pass account.
And actually what will happen is
that if you have 1000 elements,
it's not going to ask you for
the 1000 at the time.
When you start scrolling, it will start
asking you to the builder function,
hey, I need the fourth one,
I need the eighth one.
Give me the widget that you want for
this particular item.
So this is actually looping
through the categories.
Of course, I can now add more widgets,
such as icon with a padding on
everything that you know here.
So now, we have padding on them.